Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
Ans:JAVA is a Programming Language and a Computing Platform for Application Development.
JAVA Platform is a Collection of Programs that help to Develop and run Programs written in the JAVA Programming Language.
JAVA Platform includes an execution engine, a compiler, and a set of Libraries.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
Ans:The Java Development Kit (JDK) provides the foundation upon which all applications that are targeted toward the Java platform are built.
The JDK includes a variety of tools and utilities that perform a variety of tasks, which include compiling source code into bytecode, packaging applications, spinning up Java virtual machines (JVMs) and managing the runtime environment of Java applications.
  JDK components, tools and utilities
  The bin directory of the JDK provides a variety of features and tools that aid in the software development process. Some of the more popular JDK utilities include:
  •	javac: This utility is used to compile Java source code into Java bytecode.
  •	rmic: This utility creates skeletons and stubs for use in Remote Method
                Invocation (RMI).
  •	jar: This compression utility aggregates a multitude of files into a single
              Java Archive (JAR) file. The jar utility uses a standard compression
              Algorithm used by all of the most common zip utilities.
  •	javadoc: This utility can examine the names of classes and the methods
              contained within a class, as well as consume special annotations in
              order to create application programming interface (API) documentation
              for Java code.
  •	wsgen: This generates various artifacts required by Java API for XML Web
                   Services (JAX-WS).
  •	javap: This utility disassembles class files, generating information about the
                  methods, properties and attributes of a given compiled component.

What is IDE?
Ans:A Java IDE (for Integrated Development Environment) is a software application, which enables users to more easily write and debug Java programs.
What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
Ans: Many IDEs provide features like syntax highlighting and code completion, which help the user to code more easily.
   •	Eclipse. This open source IDE has long been one of the most reliable and oft-
      used IDEs. ...
   •	NetBeans. This open source IDE is easy to install, can run across different
      platforms, and is easy to use. ...
   •	BlueJ. ...
   •	IntelliJ IDEA Community Edition. ...
   •	jEdit. ...
   •	DrJava. ...
   •	Android Studio. ...
   •	JCreator.

Explain the entire java life cycle.
Ans. Life cycle of a java program tells us what happens right from the point when we type source code in a text editor to the point that source code is converted into machine code (0’s and 1’s).
     There are three main stages in the life cycle of a java program. They are:
     •	Editing the program
     •	Compiling the source code
     •	Executing the byte code
     First, you will start with typing the program in a text-editor (ex: notepad, notepad++, wordpad, textedit etc). After completing editing of the program, we have to save the file. While saving the file you should remember that the file must be saved with. Java extension. For example, let’s think that I had written a Java program, which contains a single class Sample (more on classes in future posts). It is a good convention to save the file with the name of the class. So, as per my example, the file will be saved as Sample.java.
     Second step is compilation. The name of the Java compiler is javac. The input to the compiler is Java source code which is available in Sample.java. The output of the compiler is machine independent or platform independent code which is known as bytecode. The file which is generated after compilation is .class file. As per my example, the bytecode file will be Sample. Class.
     Last step is execution. The bytecode generated by the compiler will be executed by Java Virtual Machine (JVM). Input to the JVM is bytecode and output is machine code (0’s and 1’s) which will be executed by the CPU of the local machine.

what is class?
Ans: Class is a blueprint of an Object
What is object?
Ans: Object is an instance of a class.
What is the entry point of an application?
Ans: Main Method
Why main is static?
Ans: The main method is static because they can be invoked by the runtime engine
     without having to instantiate an instance of the parent class.
Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Ans: The Object class, which is stored in the java.lang package, is the ultimate superclass of all Java classes
What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Ans: Path refers to the system while classpath refers to the Developing Environment.
What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Ans:Interface: In interface we cannot declare a body. All methods in Interface are abstract.
We can have multiple methods in abstract.

 -Abstract class: In abstract class we have to implement the body.
Abstract class can have non-abstract methods. It can also have abstract method which is not implemented.
Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
Ans:No, It's because we can't create an object in abstract class.
what is Access Specifier?
Ans: Access Specifier just basically gives us access to the class
What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
Ans: Object Oriented Programming System Object Orientated Programming System.
 Encapsulation is data hiding -Inheritance is a way to acquire properties from one class to another class 
Abstraction is implementation hiding -Polymorphism is basically an ability to take on many forms.
Two types of Polymorphism (Overloading and Overriding).

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
Ans: java.lang package is imported by default, no need to explicitly import it.
Classes in the java.lang package do not need to be imported (the compiler acts like they are always imported).
What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
Ans: Java API is a list of all the classes that are part of the Java Development Kit (JDK).
Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
Ans: No, it does through interface only.
What is method overloading and when it happens?
Ans: In overloading we can have the same name but different parameters It happens in compile time
Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it?
Ans: When an error occurs within a method, the method creates an object and hands it off to the runtime system. The object,
called an exception object, contains information about the error,
including its type and the state of the program when the error occurred.
Creating an exception object and handing it to the runtime system is called throwing an exception. 
The Exceptions are handled using try and catch method
What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
Ans: Static keyword that are used for sharing the same variable or method of a given class.
Static variable:
       1-It's a variable that's associated with a class and not with the object of the class. 
       2-Static variables are initialized only once. 

Static Method:
       1- A static method belongs to the class rather than object of a class. 
       2- A static method can be invoked without the need for creating an instance of a class. 
       3- Static method can access static data member and can change the value of it. 
What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
Ans: Final is used to apply restrictions on class, method and variable.
Final class can't be inherited, final method can't be overridden, and final variable value can't be changed.
it's a method For example, if we declare final int x = 1;
we won’t be able to change the value of x later on because we declared it as a final method.
What is final, finally and finalize?
Ans: Final is used to apply restrictions on class, method and variable.
Final class can't be inherited, final method can't be overridden, and final variable value can't be changed.
it's a method  -Finally, is used to place important code, it will be executed whether exception is handled or not.
It's a block  -Finalize is used to perform clean up processing just before object is garbage collected.
Finalize is a method.
What is a constructor ?
Ans: Constructor is used to initialize an object. A class can have multiple constructor.
Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
Ans: Yes, A class can have multiple constructor.
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
Ans: If a class doesn't have constructor, it will take default constructor.
What is "this" keyword in java ?
Ans: "this" is a reference variable in Java that refers to the current object.
What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
Ans: "Super" keyword is used to call the constructor, methods and properties of a parent class. 
super can be used to refer immediate parent class instance variable. 
super can be used to invoke immediate parent class method. 
super() can be used to invoke immediate parent class constructor.
What is JVM stand for ?
Ans: Java Virtual Machine.
Is JVM platform independent?
Ans: Yes, JVM platform independent.
What version of java are you using?
Ans: java version 1.8.
What is JAR stand for ?
Ans: Java Archive is a package file format typically used to aggregate many Java class files
and associated metadata and resources (text, images, etc.) into one file for distribution.
What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
Ans: JDK is Java Development Kit which include JVM,JRE
JVM (Java Virtual Machine) is an abstract machine.
What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
Ans: JVM (Java Virtual Machine) is an abstract machine.
JRE is an acronym for Java Runtime Environment.
What is compile time and run time?
Ans: When an application is running, it is called runtime. 
The source code must be compiled into machine code in order to become and executable program,
this is referred to as compile time.
What is heap?
Ans: Heap is the runtime data area from which memory for all class instances and arrays is allocated.
How java manage it's memory?
Ans: Java objects reside in an area called the heap. The heap is created when the JVM starts up and may increase
or decrease  in size while the application runs.
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
Ans: Once a String object is created it cannot be changed -StringBuffer is mutable means one can change the value of the object.
StringBuilder allows manipulating character sequences by appending, deleting and inserting characters and strings.
What is Singleton class?
Ans: Singleton class is to control object creation by keeping private constructor.
What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Ans:  Serialization is a process of converting an object into a sequence of bytes
which can be persisted to a disk or database or can be sent through streams.
The reverse process of creating object from sequence of bytes is called deserialization
when to use transient variable in java?
Ans: Java transient keyword is used in serialization. If you define any data member as transient, it will not be serialized.
Difference between while and do..while loop?
Ans: In "while" loops, test expression is checked at first but
in "do...while" loop code is executed at first then the condition is checked.
So, the code are executed at least once in do...while loops.
What is Enum?
Ans:  Enum is a set of fixed value.
What is Iterator?
Ans: an iterator is an object that enables a programmer to traverse a container.
Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Ans: int and Integer both represents same number of values.
Why is String Immutable in Java?
Ans: Because java uses the concept of string literal. For example there are 5 reference variables,
all refers to one object "sachin”. If one reference variable changes the value of the object,
it will be affected to all the reference variables. That is why string objects are immutable in java.
What is constructor chaining in Java?
Ans: Constructor chaining is the process of calling one constructor from another constructor with respect to current object.
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
Ans: Serial Collector is mostly designed for single-threaded environments. 
Parallel Garbage Collector is used for multi-threaded environments
What is JIT stands for?
Ans: Just In Time.
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Ans: Java objects reside in an area called the heap. The heap is created when the JVM starts up and may increase or
decrease in size while the application runs. -Garbage collection is the process of looking at heap memory,
identifying which objects are in use and which are not and deleting the unused objects.
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
Ans: No.
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Ans: When an object is created its stored in the heap ,
Stack creates a memory to the created object,
 Stack is used for static.
What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
Ans: Reflection is a feature in the Java programming language. It allows an executing Java program to
examine or "introspect" upon itself and manipulate internal properties of the program.
Java Reflection is quite powerful and can be very useful. Java Reflection makes it possible to inspect
classes, interfaces, fields and methods at runtime, without knowing the names of the classes, methods etc.
what is multithreading in java?
Ans: Multithreading in java is a process of executing multiple threads simultaneously. A thread is a lightweight
sub-process, the smallest unit of processing. Multiprocessing and multithreading, both are used to
achieve multitasking.
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
Ans: Synchronized keyword in Java is used to provide mutually exclusive access to a shared resource with
multiple threads in Java. Synchronization in Java guarantees that no two threads can execute a synchronized
method which requires the same lock simultaneously or concurrently.
What is Framework?
Ans: Frameworks generally refer to broad software development platforms.
What are the testing Framework available in java?
Ans: J Unit, TestNG
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
Ans: In J Unit methods have to be declared as static.
TestNG does not have this constraint.
What are the dependencies for this project?
Ans: 1. mongo-java-driver-3.4.0
2. mysql-connector-java-5.1.41-bin.jar
3.testng-6.8.7.jar
what is dependency injection in java?
Ans: The general concept behind dependency injection is called Inversion of Control. According to this concept a
class should not configure its dependencies statically but should be configured from the outside.
A Java class has a dependency on another class, if it uses an instance of this class. We call
this a _class dependency. For example, a class which accesses a logger service has a dependency
on this service class.
What is static binding and dynamic binding?
Ans: Static binding in Java occurs during compile time while dynamic binding occurs during runtime.









